1. Why MapReduce program is needed in Pig Programming?

Pig is a high-level platform that makes many Hadoop data analysis issues easier to execute.
A program written in Pig Latin is a data flow language which needs an execution engine to execute the query.
So when a program is written in Pig Latin the Pig compiler converts the program into MapReduce jobs for the execution.
Hence we need MapReduce program in Pig.

2. What are advantages of Pig over MapReduce?

->Apache Pig is a high-level data flow platform whereas MapReduce is a low-level data processing paradigm.
->Without writing complex Java implementations in MapReduce the programmers can achieve the same implementations very easily using Pig Latin.
->Apache Pig provides nested data types like tuples, bags and maps that are not available in MapReduce.
->Pig provides many built-in operators to support data operations like joins, filters, ordering, sorting etc. 
Whereas to perform the same function in MapReduce it becomes difficult due to the absence of such data operations.

3. What is Pig engine and what is its importance?

Pig Engine accepts the Pig Latin scripts as input and converts those scripts into MapReduce jobs.
Importance:
*It acts as an interpreter between Pig Latin scripts and MapReduce jobs.
*It creates the environment to execute Pig scripts into series of MapReduce jobs in a parallel manner.

4. What are the modes of Pig execution?
There are two modes in Pig execution:-

Local Mode->To run Pig in local mode we need access to a single machine.
All the files are installed and run using the local host and file system. 
We need to specify local mode using the -x flag.

Mapreduce Mode->To run Pig in mapreduce mode we need access to Hadoop cluster and HDFS.
Mapreduce mode is the default mode.
We don't need to specify it using the -x flag.

5. What is Grunt Shell in Pig?

The Grunt shell of Apache Pig is mainly used to write Pig Latin scripts. 
After invoking the Grunt shell we can run the Pig scripts in the shell.
we can invoke any shell commands using sh and fs.
Using sh command we can invoke any shell commands from the Grunt shell but we cannot execute the commands that are a part of the shell environment.
Using the fs command we can invoke any FsShell commands from the Grunt shell.

6. What are the features of Pig Latin language?

->Pig Latin is a dataflow language. 
->Each processing step results in a new data set or relation.
->The Pig Latin is automatically converted to Mapreduce jobs by the execution engine.
->It has support to process huge amounts of data.
->It has many built-in operators and also supports the creation of user defined functions in other programming languages and Pig scripts.

7. Is Pig Latin commands case sensitive?

Keywords and Parameters in Pig Latin are not case-sensitive.
But relation,field names and UDF names are case-sensitive.

8. What is a data flow language?

Data flow language is a  graphical language for functional programming which has a data or work flow approach. 
It is a paradigm that models a program as a directed graph of the data flowing between operations.

